doc/GlobalResponses.md, before:

# Global Responses

Remote global responses are "global scope" patterns that can handle inputs in any Moxie
context.  They are the means by which you could add a new global entry pattern like
"Moxie tell me the time".

*NOTE* All speech is converted to lowercase before matching, so regex expression should always
use lowercase.  Moxie is often misrecognized as Moxy or Foxy or Roxy, so you may need to use 
expressions like `(moxie|moxy|foxy)` to pick up the name and all its weird speech to text quirks.

*WARNING* Global scope can interrupt a lot of great interactions, so any global responses
should have narrow patterns to match inputs so they don't disrupt conversations.  Take care
here, as it is a very easy way to break free form chat.

## Action Types

Global responses can be in one of these action types:

* RESPONSE - Moxie will say this response
* LAUNCH - Moxie will say this respopnse, and launch into a different module
* CONFIRM_LAUNCH - Moxie will ask if you want to switch activities, and if user confirms launch a diff module (response isn't played but needs exist)
* METHOD - The most complex, Moxie's response will be produced by a custom python method provided

## METHOD type

By far the most powerful and scary, this method allows you to store a custom python method to produce the response.  The
method must use the following signature, and no global level imports are allowed.

*WARNING* Python is very particular about syntax, including indentation white space, and it is highly recommended that you
use a code editor of some kind, then pasting the results into the database `code` field and testing in the Interact view (globals can be tested in any chat module).

```
# request - the full remote chat request from the robot
# response - the response object, you should return it filled out OR a simple string with response text
# entities - any groups extracted from the regex input
def get_response(request, response, entities):
    resp = { "what": "Chicken Butt", "why": "Chicken Thigh", "how": "Chicken Cow" }    
    return resp.get(entities[0], "Error")
```

The above example is a simple method to pair with a simple regex: `^(moxie|moxy) (what|why|how)$`.  It has a group for the adverb, which is the second group.

### How this regex works

1. User says "moxie what" or "moxie why" or "moxie how", which are all valid.  The regex groups these options inside () which makes them a "group".  The special word is in the second group, so we set `entity_groups=2` in the setup.
2. The regex matches, and the METHOD is queued to run.  Because we asked to extract groups, the method is passed `entities=['why']` if we say `why`.
3. The method then looks up a fun response based on the adverb, and returns it as a string
4. This string is then marked-up and played as the response for the input

### Another Example, ask Moxie the time

In this example you can ask Moxie the time.  It's worth noting that Moxie can sometimes struggle to say things
like you'd expect, so AM or A.M. didn't sound right, so I had to use AY M, and if you include a leading 0 like
09:15 Moxie says the leading 0.  A great way to experiment is using Puppet Mode to see how things sound.

* pattern = `^(moxie|moxy) (time|what(?:'s| is) the time|what time is it)$`
* action = `METHOD`
* code = (see below)

```
def get_response(request, response, entities):
    def get_current_time():
        from datetime import datetime
        now = datetime.now()
        am_pm = "AY M" if now.hour < 12 else "P M" # Moxie speak
        hour = now.hour % 12 or 12  # Convert to 12-hour format
        current_time = f"The time is {hour}:{now.strftime('%M')} {am_pm}"
        return current_time
    return get_current_time()
```

Note: You can use import from within the method scope.  Any exceptions in processing this will produce a response
with an error and the name of the exception.  There is a 10s timeout on execution.

## OMG How does one make a regex anyway?

If you aren't familiar with them, do some googling.  But, AIs are often pretty good if you describe what you want.  I used
this prompt to generate the time regex above (except I expanded moxie to include moxy by hand):

```
i want to write a regular expression to catch phrases like "moxie time" "moxie what's the time" and "moxie what time is it" and i want only whole phrases, not substrings, accepted
```

Commit message:

Add docs about GR volley method.

doc/GlobalResponses.md, after:

# Global Responses

Remote global responses are "global scope" patterns that can handle inputs in any Moxie
context.  They are the means by which you could add a new global entry pattern like
"Moxie tell me the time".

*NOTE* All speech is converted to lowercase before matching, so regex expression should always
use lowercase.  Moxie is often misrecognized as Moxy or Foxy or Roxy, so you may need to use 
expressions like `(moxie|moxy|foxy)` to pick up the name and all its weird speech to text quirks.

*WARNING* Global scope can interrupt a lot of great interactions, so any global responses
should have narrow patterns to match inputs so they don't disrupt conversations.  Take care
here, as it is a very easy way to break free form chat.

## Action Types

Global responses can be in one of these action types:

* RESPONSE - Moxie will say this response
* LAUNCH - Moxie will say this respopnse, and launch into a different module
* CONFIRM_LAUNCH - Moxie will ask if you want to switch activities, and if user confirms launch a diff module (response isn't played but needs exist)
* METHOD - The most complex, Moxie's response will be produced by a custom python method provided

## METHOD type

By far the most powerful and scary, this method allows you to store a custom python method to produce the response.  The
method must use the following signature, and no global level imports are allowed.

*WARNING* Python is very particular about syntax, including indentation white space, and it is highly recommended that you
use a code editor of some kind, then pasting the results into the database `code` field and testing in the Interact view (globals can be tested in any chat module).

```
# request - the full remote chat request from the robot
# response - the response object, you should return it filled out OR a simple string with response text
# entities - any groups extracted from the regex input
def get_response(request, response, entities):
    resp = { "what": "Chicken Butt", "why": "Chicken Thigh", "how": "Chicken Cow" }    
    return resp.get(entities[0], "Error")
```

The above example is a simple method to pair with a simple regex: `^(moxie|moxy) (what|why|how)$`.  It has a group for the adverb, which is the second group.

### How this regex works

1. User says "moxie what" or "moxie why" or "moxie how", which are all valid.  The regex groups these options inside () which makes them a "group".  The special word is in the second group, so we set `entity_groups=2` in the setup.
2. The regex matches, and the METHOD is queued to run.  Because we asked to extract groups, the method is passed `entities=['why']` if we say `why`.
3. The method then looks up a fun response based on the adverb, and returns it as a string
4. This string is then marked-up and played as the response for the input

### Another Example, ask Moxie the time

In this example you can ask Moxie the time.  It's worth noting that Moxie can sometimes struggle to say things
like you'd expect, so AM or A.M. didn't sound right, so I had to use AY M, and if you include a leading 0 like
09:15 Moxie says the leading 0.  A great way to experiment is using Puppet Mode to see how things sound.

* pattern = `^(moxie|moxy) (time|what(?:'s| is) the time|what time is it)$`
* action = `METHOD`
* code = (see below)

```
def get_response(request, response, entities):
    def get_current_time():
        from datetime import datetime
        now = datetime.now()
        am_pm = "AY M" if now.hour < 12 else "P M" # Moxie speak
        hour = now.hour % 12 or 12  # Convert to 12-hour format
        current_time = f"The time is {hour}:{now.strftime('%M')} {am_pm}"
        return current_time
    return get_current_time()
```

Note: You can use import from within the method scope.  Any exceptions in processing this will produce a response
with an error and the name of the exception.  There is a 10s timeout on execution.

### NEW Volley Based Method

While the original `get_response` method above is still supported, there is a newer method which is preferred if you want to also access the Volley object to consider persistent data or configuration.  This method is used over `get_response` if both exist in the code.

The new method, `handle_volley` performs the operation using the volley object.  This allows it to access all the useful volley data we'd like, but the method must call `vollley.set_output` to provide the response explicitly.  When working from the Volley context, entities are provided using the `volley.entities` property.

In this example, we redo the chicken butt example from above, but we also store the last result, so we can track what was said previously inside the same conversation.

```
def handle_volley(volley):
    resp = { "what": "Chicken Butt", "why": "Chicken Thigh", "how": "Chicken Cow" } 
    last_msg = volley.local_data.get("last_chicken")
    out = resp.get(volley.entities[0], "Error")
    volley.local_data["last_chicken"] = out
    if last_msg:
        out += " (last time I said " + last_msg + ")"
    volley.set_output(out, None)
```

This conversation then plays out like:

```
Moxie:  Let's talk! What's a good topic?
User: moxie what
Moxie:  Chicken Butt
User: moxie how
Moxie:  Chicken Cow (last time I said Chicken Butt)
```

## OMG How does one make a regex anyway?

If you aren't familiar with them, do some googling.  But, AIs are often pretty good if you describe what you want.  I used
this prompt to generate the time regex above (except I expanded moxie to include moxy by hand):

```
i want to write a regular expression to catch phrases like "moxie time" "moxie what's the time" and "moxie what time is it" and i want only whole phrases, not substrings, accepted
```
